---
title: SSH - Secure Shell
data: 2025-05-21 14:35:00 -0600
categories: [ssh,linux,security]
tags: [linux,ssh,security]
description: SSH is a secure, encrypted method to connect remotely to Linux computers.
author: hydra
media_subpath: /assets/posts/
pin: false
---
# Synopsis
>Most services that we run in our home lab run in Linux. Using SSH is a secure way for us to remotely connect to home lab Linux computers. Let's look at SSH Key Pair creation, SSH Config file, and disabling password logins.
{: .prompt-info }

SSH as a secure, remote access protocol allows us to connect to our Linux computers in a secure way. You can simply pass your user ID and password to SSH client or you can create a SSH Key Pair that you can use to connect without needing to pass a user ID and password to the remote computer. Let's explore setting up a SSH Key Pair, copying it to a remote Linux computer, then configuring our SSH Config file to use multiple SSH Key Pairs.

## Create a SSH Key Pair for Remote Access to Linux Computers
Similar to the SSH Key Pair that you created for [GitHub](https://hydrahackdocs.github.io/posts/GitHub/), you can create keys for use with Linux SSH to perform remote logins. These are extremely useful especially for automation and CI/CD DevOps. Let's use your WSL install to create your new key pairs since it will be your command & control computer.

1. Log into your WSL Terminal cd change to your home folder if not already there:

```bash
cd ~
```

2. Create your new SSH Key Pair, giving it a password if you choose:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && chmod 700 ~/.ssh
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "<email@yourdomain.com> - Linux" -f ~/.ssh/id_linux
```

3. Copy the SSH Key to a remote Linux computer, if you created one, if not just hold onto the key pair until you do:

```bash
ssh-copy-id -i ~/.ssh/id_linux <userid>@<hostIp or DNS>
```

4. Add the new key to your .bashrc profile config (if you already added your GitHub key, only add the ssh-add line at the end):

```bash
nano ~/.bashrc
```

```bash
# Start the SSH Agent and Add Keys at login
SSHAGENT=/usr/bin/ssh-agent
SSHAGENTARGS=" -s"
if [ -z "$SSH_AUTH_SOCK" -a -x "$SSHAGENT" ]; then
        eval `$SSHAGENT $SSHAGENTARGS`
        trap "kill $SSH_AGENT_PID" 0
fi
echo "Adding SSH Key for Linux computers..."
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_linux
```

5. Load the new profile (enter your password if you created one):

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

6. Test the connection to your remote Linux computer (if you have one). You should be given a command prompt from the remote Linux computer:

```bash
ssh -i ~/.ssh/id_linux <userid>@<hostIp or DNS>
```

7. Disable remote password logins on the remote Linux computer for tighter security (OPTIONAL):

```bash
sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
```

  - Change the following lines:

```bash
PasswordAuthentication no
ChallengeResponseAuthentication no
```

8. Disconnect from the remote Linux computer:

```bash
logout
```

## Create/Update the SSH Config File & Link WSL and Windows Configs
This step is optional, but highly recommended. It will allow you to map all your SSH Key Pairs with the proper host so you do not have to specify the SSK Key Pair when connecting to remote systems. This will work for both Linux computers as well as your GitHub account. Perform this step in your WSL Terminal.

1. Create your user SSH Config File and set the proper security, then open it for editing:

```bash
touch ~/.ssh/config
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/config
nano ~/.ssh/config
```

2. Add a section for each host in the following format. There a lots of other [options](https://www.ssh.com/academy/ssh/config) you can set, but most are for advanced configs:

```bash
Host <name>
    HostName <IP Address or DNS Name>
    User <username>
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_linux
```

3. Example of using the SSH Key Pair you created for GitHub:

```bash
Host github
    HostName github.com
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_github
```

4. Example for a default config:

```bash
Host *
    User <username>
    Port 22
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_linux
```

5. Optionally, you may want to keep your .ssh config and SSH Key Pairs synced with your Windows SSH/Git install if you chose to install SSH/Git in your Windows environment:

```bash
ln -s ~/.ssh /c/Users/<your \account \here>/
```

>Disclaimer: This Hack is intended for entertainment purposes only and is not intended to be a complete guide to every situation or need.