---
title: GitHub - Store your code
data: 2025-05-20 17:26:00 -0600
categories: [homelab,git]
tags: [git,homelab]
description: Document your home lab setup with powerful version control and document repository.
author: hydra
media_subpath: /assets/posts/
pin: false
---
# Synopsis
>Let's keep your home lab documented! GitHub is a great place to store your documentation. Let's get started with a free account.
{: .prompt-info }

GitHub is a great site to host your own repositories of code for your home lab. It is based on the git version control system. Creating an account will also allow you to comment and star repositories from other developers that we use in our home lab setup. I'll provide some links at the end that you can use to help you learn more about git and how to use its functionality. For now though, let's get you up and running with a free account.

## Create Your GitHub Account
1. Navigate over to [GitHub](https://github.com/signup?ref_cta=Sign+up&ref_loc=header+logged+out&ref_page=%2F&source=header-home) to register for a new account.
2. You will be asked to provide your **email address**, I suggest you use the new email that we created for your home lab.
3. Create a complex **password**. Since GitHub is a popular place for attacks, don't scrimp on complexity. You can use my [Bitwarden](https://hydrahacksdocs.github.io/posts/Bitwarden/) Hack to help you if you have not done it yet.
4. Create a **username**. This will need to be unique across all of GitHub.
5. Click on continue, you will need to verify your email account, but once you are done you will be able to log into your shinny new GitHub account.

## Setup for SSH Access to your Repositories
>You can of course skip this part of the Hack if you simply want to supply your user ID and password through HTTPS each time you access your GitHub account, but I do suggest you create an SSH Key Pair to use with your GitHub account as it will make git interactions much simpler.
{: prompt-info}

>You are going to be using your WSL install for this step, so if you have not created it or have access to another Linux server, please follow my [WSL](https://hydrahacksdocs.github.io/posts/WSL/) Hack first.
{: prompt-tip}

1. Open your Windows Terminal and make sure that it opens an Ubuntu console. Find it in the Windows Start Launcher by searching for **Terminal**.
2. Make sure that you are in your home folder:

```bash
cd ~
```

3. Make sure that ssh-client is installed:

```bash
sudo apt install openssh-client -y
```

4. Create a new SSH Key Pair that you will use with GitHub. I recommend that you create this key pair for the sole purpose of connecting to GitHub and not use it for remote access to local Linux servers. It will ask you for a password, it is optional so use your own judgement:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && chmod 700 ~/.ssh
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "<email@yourdomain.com> - GitHub" -f ~/.ssh/id_github
```

5. Once the keys have been created you will see a id_github and id_github.pub file in your .ssh folder. You will use the id_github.pub file in your GitHub profile.
6. You will want the key to load each time you log into your WSL environment, so let's set that up. Open up your .bashrc profile configuration:

```bash
nano ~/.bashrc
```

7. Add the following lines at the end of the file then save and exit the file:

```bash
# Start the SSH Agent and Add Keys at login
SSHAGENT=/usr/bin/ssh-agent
SSHAGENTARGS=" -s"
if [ -z "$SSH_AUTH_SOCK" -a -x "$SSHAGENT" ]; then
        eval `$SSHAGENT $SSHAGENTARGS`
        trap "kill $SSH_AGENT_PID" 0
fi
echo "Adding SSH Key for GitHub..."
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_github
```

8. Activate the new profile. Note if you added a password to your SSH Key, it will ask for it each time you login:

```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

9. Display the .pub key so you can copy it into the clipboard by highlighting it and then right-click the highlighted text. It will look something like the following (ssh-ed25519 AAAAC3NzdC1lZDI1NTE5A8AAINDGPPyYJt76iiwVopDv93sZmOGxCuFmVztORmqt5N36 <email@yourdomain.com> - GitHub):

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_github.pub
```

10. Back in your GitHub account you can add your .pub key to your account. Click on your account icon at the top right-hand side of the page and then select **Settings**.
11. From the left-hand menu select the **SSH & GPG** keys option.
12. Click on **New SSH Key**.
13. Give it a Title, like GitHub SSH Key and paste in the copied text from earlier.
14. Now click on **Add SSH Key**.

## Install Git on WSL and Set Initial Configuration
Git might already be installed on your WSL, but let's make sure.

1. In the WSL Terminal install git:

```bash
sudo apt install git -y
```

2. Set the minimal config to be able to pull/push to a remote GitHub repository:

```bash
git config --global user.name "username"
git config --global user.email "email@yourdomain.com"
```


>Your new SSH Keys are ready for use with GitHub. Try to create a new repo and clone it locally to your WSL machine.
{: prompt-info}

## Next Steps
1. If you are not familiar with git, I would suggest you read a couple blog posts from the GitHub training series to get a basic grasp on the concepts of using git.
  - [What is git?](https://github.blog/developer-skills/programming-languages-and-frameworks/what-is-git-our-beginners-guide-to-version-control/)
  - [Top 12 git Commands Every Developer Must Know](https://github.blog/developer-skills/github/top-12-git-commands-every-developer-must-know/)
  - [Git Cheat Sheet](https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf)


  >Disclaimer: This Hack is intended for entertainment purposes only and is not intended to be a complete guide to every situation or need.